Danilo Reitano
daniloreitanoandrades@gmail.com | +54 261 5119207
Proven Senior Software Engineer & Team Leader with over 6 years
of experience delivering innovative, high-performance software so-
lutions. Skilled in Python, AWS (DynamoDB, Lambda, Kinesis, ECS,
API Gateway, S3), GraphQL, FastAPI, Docker, and CI/CD. Having
experience designing microservice architectures, improving system
performance (achieved 15x response-time reduction), and leading
cross-functional teams. Eager to leverage this blend of technical ex-
pertise and collaborative leadership to drive transformative change in
real estate and fintech domains..
EXPERIENCE
ARIONKODER | Senior Lead / Software Engineer
Nov 2021 – Present | Full-time, remote
• Co-lead an engineering team of 150+ at Arionkoder.
• Developed and optimized REST/GraphQL APIs for client
platforms, achieving a 15x performance boost through caching
and efficient data modeling.
• Transitioned legacy services into a microservices architecture,
reducing deployment risks and improving scalability.
• Redesigned authentication and authorization flows,
introducing JWT-based security and centralized user
management.
• Improved developer workflows by implementing CI/CD
pipelines, resulting in more frequent and reliable releases.
• Identified business opportunities and client needs, aligning
technical solutions with strategic goals.
• Worked with client (Reptrak) leading the design and
implementation of a REST/GraphQL API to provide data to
their clients programmatically and through their platform
dashboard.
EVENTBRITE | Software Engineer
Jul 2020 – Nov 2021 | Full-time, remote
• Communications Infrastructure team, responsible for emails
and notifications sent to users.
• Improved message delivery rates, engagement, and tracking.
• Designed and implemented the DynamoDB persistence
model for the comm-tracking service.
• Implemented the migration of the Newsletter service from
monolith to micro-service to enable scaling the audience.
• Designed and rebuilt email-preference pages using React,
creating new email templates and updating designs to enhance
user experience and align with brand guidelines.
DHARMA LAB | Machine Learning Engineer
Apr 2019 – Jul 2020 | Full-time remote
• Project #1: System that schedules Court Hearings using AI.
Achieved reduction from 4 to 1 full-time employees for the
task. Wrote a Flask API to run the model and access results.
• Project #2: Route optimizer for a logistics company to reduce
trips with empty trucks.
EDUCATION
MASTER'S DEGREE IN AI
Universidad de Buenos Aires
Mar 2025 - Present | Mendoza, Argentina
SYSTEMS ENGINEER
Universidad Tecnológica Nacional
2016 - 2020 | Mendoza, Argentina
Graduated on track with a grade of 8.69 (on 1 to
10 scale) Approx 3.7 (on 0 to 4 US GPA scale)
Best Academic Performance Award
SKILLS
PROGRAMMING
6+ years:
Python • AWS (DynamoDB, ECS, Lambda, API
Gateway, Kinesis, S3) • FastAPI • SQL •
MongoDB • CI/CD (Jenkins, Github Actions,
CircleCI) • Docker • GraphQL • REST
2+ years:
Django • GCP • JavaScript • TypeScript • React •
Auth0 • OpenSearch • Kafka • Sparkpost • Java •
Flask
1+ years:
Golang • Solidity
TECHNOLOGY
Git/Github • Datadog • Linux
Artificial Intelligence • Architecture
Splunk • Kibana •
LEADERSHIP MANAGEMENT
Project Management • Strategic Planning
Agile • Effective Communication
Decision Making • Problem Solving
Mentorship • Stakeholder Engagement
LANGUAGES
Spanish: Native
English: Bilingual Proficiency
German: Elementary Proficiency
PROJECTS/PUBLICATIONS
- Flick - Ticket Reselling Platform / Founder &
Chief Blockchain Officer / 2022-2023
- Nerdearla Talk / You’ve got mail (2 billion) /
Eventbrite Comms Infra
- FastAPI Versioning / Medium Article
LINKS
- Github: danilosim
- LinkedIn: danilo-reitano
